Exercises
Create a new repository on GitHub to hold your assignments for the Databases module. Create a new branch for Checkpoint 1. Submit your answers.

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" - string
42 - integer
09/02/1945 - date
98.7 - float
$15.99 - float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
Answer:  A database would best be used when storing lots of data that might also need to be changed.  Text files would be great when data needs to be read by humans.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
Answer: SQL is a declarative language rather than a procedural language.  Meaning that we don't have to define an algorithm for how a database should search, instead we tell the database what we're looking for and the database engine finds the most efficient way to return the data.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
Answer: Databases are organized into a table which contains rows and columns.  Each cell in the table contains a value that matches its data type.  Databases are stored in a binary file format, which makes it unreadable to humans.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
Answer:  The information in a database is all provided in a table which consists of columns and rows.  The columns are labeled according to what is stored there where the rows represent an individual item.  Where a column and row intersect it is called a cell. In each cell there is a particular value.  The value in the cell contains a piece of information that the column name describes.  Basically the columns define what the data represents and the rows make up a complete conceptual unit.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
Answer: date, time, integer

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;
     What is the date and amount of each payment

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
     What is the amount of all payments where the amount is greater than 500.

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
     Tell me all the information of the payment where the payee is Mega Foods.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
  SELECT email, date
  FROM users
  WHERE name = "DeAndre Data"

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
  SELECT userid
  FROM users
  WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
  SELECT *
  FROM users
  WHERE userid = 4
